The President:
Today, I'd like to speak with
you about the ongoing and urgent
efforts to avoid a first-ever
default and get our fiscal house
in order.
Republicans in the House of
Representatives just spent
precious days trying to pass
a plan that a majority of
Republicans and Democrats in the
Senate had already said they
wouldn't vote for.
It's a plan that wouldn't
solve our fiscal problems,
but would force us to
re-live this crisis in just a
few short months.
It would hold our economy
captive to Washington politics
once again.
If anything, the past few
weeks have demonstrated
that's not acceptable.
Any solution to avoid
default must be bipartisan.
It must have the support of both
parties that were sent here to
represent the American people
-- not just one faction of
one party.
There are multiple ways
to resolve this problem.
Congress must find common ground
on a plan that can get support
from both parties in the
House and in the Senate.
And it's got to be a plan
that I can sign by Tuesday.
The parties are not
that far apart here.
We're in rough agreement on how
much spending we need to cut to
reduce our deficit.
And we agree on a process
to tackle tax reform and
entitlement reform.
There are plenty of
ways out of this mess.
But there is very little time.
We need to reach a compromise by
Tuesday so that our country will
have the ability to pay
its bills on time --
bills like Social Security
checks, veterans' benefits,
and contracts we've
signed with thousands of
American businesses.
If we don't, for
the first time ever,
we could lose our country's
AAA credit rating.
Not because we didn't have the
capacity to pay our bills --
we do -- but because we didn't
have a AAA political system
to match it.
And make no mistake -- for
those who reflexively oppose tax
increases on anybody, a lower
credit rating could be a tax
increase on everybody -- we'd
all pay higher interest rates on
mortgages, car loans,
and credit cards.
That would be inexcusable,
and entirely self-inflicted
by Washington.
The power to solve
this is in our hands.
All that's needed is a simple
vote that Democrats and
Republicans have
taken for decades,
including all of the
leaders in Congress today.
It was done 18 times
under President Reagan.
Seven times under
George W. Bush.
And it must be done again now.
It's not a vote that allows
Congress to spend more money.
Raising the debt ceiling simply
gives our country the ability to
pay the bills that Congress
has already racked up.
It gives the United States
of America the ability to
keep its word.
And it lets businesses and
our economy breathe a sigh
of relief.
On Monday night, I asked you
to make your voice heard in
this debate.
And the response
was overwhelming.
One of the emails we received
was from a woman named
Kelly Smith, who wanted to send
this message to Washington:
"I keep my home
clean," Kelly wrote.
"I work hard at a full time job,
give my parents any monies I can
so they can afford
their medications,
I pay my bills and by
all appearances I'm a
responsible person.
All I'm asking is that
you be responsible.
I have my house in order and all
I'm asking is that you get yours
the same way."
Here in Washington, we need
to get our house in order.
And I have to say, Democrats
in Congress and some Senate
Republicans have been listening
and have shown themselves
willing to make compromises
to solve this crisis.
Now all of us -- including
Republicans in the House of
Representatives -- need to
demonstrate the same kind of
responsibility that the
American people show every day.
The time for putting
party first is over.
The time for compromise
on behalf of the American
people is now.
Thank you.